# Week 1 Reflection

A work is considered E-Literature when it becomes an interactive experience. Something that is unlikely to have the same effect physically from printed literature. Its existence distinguishes how we read or 'digest' literature.

Shade was particularly interesting as it prompted a new way of discovering concepts of the written word. Frustration became a key emotion as often I found myself wanting to know more, and quickly - to find the right words. Similar to a choose-your-own-adventure, but more so presenting a route of discovery to those choices and options. A much more personal and intriging adventure, yet stuck or trapped in the puzzling mind of the author. 

For this course, I really came in with no expectations, having only seen its title and no description. I am looking to open myself up to the idea of experimentation in a field I am not completely comfortable with - to experiment with ideas and passion for a new form of expression. Having never coded before, I look forward to learning and building my own website - an important skill to have and utilise in such a technologically advancing society.

# Week 2 Reflection

“While I am persuaded by Leonardo Flores’s argument that there’s a wealth of digital creative production among people who have never heard of ELO nor studied e-lit in college, I wonder if the radical expansion of e-lit’s aesthetic from difficulty to ease violates one of e-literature’s founding principles: that to read e-lit requires “non-trivial” effort, whether that effort is physical interaction and/or cognitive complexity? This 1997 definition from Espen Aarseth’s Cybertexts, and N.Katherine Hayles’ definition of technotexts (2002) describe the mechanics by which e-lit artists align its practices with modernist poetry, not populist bestsellers. Our field remains committed to self-conscious reading practices, where the interaction between a work’s physical properties and its semantic strategies engage in “reflexive loops” (Hayles). Stephanie Strickland suggests that “reading e-lit requires taking an aesthetic attitude toward the textscape as an object that stimulates the sense. To read e-works is to operate or play them (more like an instrument than a game, though some e-works have gamelike elements)” (2009). An experimental, hand-built interface is very different from a pre-packaged, self-evident social media interface.”

Berens (2019) ‘E-Lit's #1 Hit: Is Instagram Poetry E-literature?’
Q: Do you agree with Beren’s argument that Instagram poetry is “indivisible from the surveillance capitalism infrastructure of social media” Also: What does the term ‘non-trivial effort’ mean when it comes to E-Lit?

Answer:Looking at the ways in which E-Literature has evolved, it begs the question of whether Instagram poetry can be divisible from its tied relationship to the platform that hosts it. In Beren’s ____ piece, he argues that there is no possible separation of these two entities purely on the fact that the platform (i.e. Instagram) moulds how the writing is produced, transmitted, circulated and consumed by its audience. This concept of platform dependency highlights a few issues with its inability to be dissociable. Algorithmic visibility determines which poems may be consumed, there is data extraction from users (e.g. from their comments, reposts, shares, replay time), and interface constraints push for more basic language, and visually appealing poetry. As such, this type of poetry can no longer be considered simply ‘published online’, but writing fashioned by a financial rationale, that can be more simply put as what Beren claims to be surveillance capitalism. Interestingly, the particular platform of Instagram relies heavily on an attention economy. By having an immediate emotional impact through clear design, it offers a breath from the complexity of what is considered ‘traditional’ E-Literature. Furthermore, the result of monetizing audience engagement means poetry can be regarded and become embedded in the larger portion of a data-focused system. Nonetheless, this does not necessarily discount Instagram poetry from being considered ‘meaningful’ literature. Rather, this mode of writing distinguishes itself through distinct aesthetics - primarily its ability to be more accessible through mass-circulation. Thus, to completely disregard Instagram poetry as E-Lit would be inconsistent with the modern world, where in reality, it may be more easily understood as ‘platform literature’ - a kind of creative writing framed by social media networks. 

In terms of “non-trivial effort”, the phrase originates from Espen Aarseth’s ‘Theory of Cybertext’ (____), where he determines the need for some texts to be consumed with more than just words in a sequence. Hence, the reader is required to partake in something surpassing the act of turning a page or scroll to experience the writing. There are two concepts that uphold this: that the reader must physically interact with the piece (perhaps through a click, dragging elements on the page, solving puzzles to progress), and they are required to interpret systems that are complex (non-linear story-telling, and multi-model components such as animation, sound and text). This kind of literature becomes experimental or even modernist, as opposed to passively reading a text. Here, the reader can become part of the piece (i.e. a co-creator) through their interpretive labour to consume it. As for Instagram poetry, having basic images, instant readability and little to no interaction, through a critical lens, there is the argument that it may be deficient in that “non-trivial effort”. As such, an expensed genre of E-lit to include Instagram poetry is diluted by Beren as he argues the importance of the original experimental ethos surrounding its culture. Nonetheless, you may wish to concur the need for E-Lit to be defined by its difficulty and experimental structure, as perhaps digital, accessible writing also belongs in the category. 


## Week 3 Thursday 

Read (6 minutes) and discuss Jenny's second GenAI/'JenAI' blog post and then reflect upon the importance of tracking tools of making (e.g., for iterative purposes, for troubleshooting, as research capture situated in a particular time (since tech evolves so quickly), to network/pool knowledge with peers, to situate ideas in relation to the field).

Tracking the 'tools of making' is essential. It ensures that any kind of experimentation is iterative and shareable. Jenny posits its neccesity for troubleshooting as attributions to failed experiements can result in developing new parameters for refined future versions. Furthermore, the tracking captures a certain techlogoical moment where the precise hardware used, highlighting historical ___ to a technoloigcally advancing society. Knowledge-sharing allows others to view and use the work for their own purposes, and ___.

## Week 4 Reflection

Activity: Look at the diagrams on p.93 of (Aarseth 1997) reading and the categories: author; narrator; narratee; reader. Look at the diagrams on p. 103 and 104 of (Ryan 2006) reading and the categories of internal v external interactivity and exploratory v ontological interactivity

Q: Can you analyse the architecture (layers, structures, interactions) of the hypertext piece you read above in these terms?

Anna Jacobson's 'How to Knit a Human' balances an illusion of choice with an exploratory narrative. Guiding through a hospital sequence, to 'freedom', the narrative feels somewhat linear whereby the choices seem to lead to the same 'end point'. Fragmented story-telling is possibly reminiscent of the concepts explored through memory gaps (the ETC's). 
